---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-13
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment1
---

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: My knowledge on programming has improved a bit over the semester. Designing the e-commerce store has sparked my creativity and knowledge in CSS and HTML. I learned how to modify tags and IDs in CSS. W3 Schools had helped me tremendously with this project and using the resources that they offer had open doors to my web designing skills. Looking back at my assignment1, I wish I could do more on the creative side and do something differently next time.

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills: I really need to work on my programming skills. I struggled alot on IR1 and also validating the quantities on server.js. Doing those task had really humbled me because I thought I could actually do it at first. I was too stubborn to ask for help when I needed it the most. But towards the last few days before the due date, I finally asked Professor Port's help to get started on it and understand what am I doing with the code. He told me that I should not always think technical but think in a simple way as possible. I didn't took advantage of the time that we had for this assignment. For the next assignment, I will start early and always ask for help when needed.

I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast: The WODs definetly helped me learned more about how to code. The WOD that helped me the most was the earliest WODs: BrowserHistory and also the tough ones like Store1, invoice, etc.. These WODs gave me an idea on how  Assignment1 should almost be like. Although the instructions aren't quite clear, it has helped me improvise on how to make the code.

The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: The labs has helped me gave an idea of what the modules is all about. It was sorta like reading an instructions manual. You carefully read the instructions and if you mess up, you have to redo and read it all again to understand what went wrong/missed. Labs are all trial and error.

I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2: The Assignment1 journey was a tough one, but I am sorta ready to start Assignment2. I have ideas on how to create my login and programming the code to make it. I'm also planning to retouch on products_display.html and invoice.html because I am not satisfied with the design that I've created.

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways: This class can be improve by retouching on the wording of the assignments in general and also please implement a lot of visual screencast (Ex. coding examples). 

What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.): What helps me the most in class are all the things that Professor Port has provided us to learn and also the one-on-one help. I really appreciated how Professor Port is willing to help us when we really need it the most. He helped me understand how the code works and "validates" if I understand what he's talking about. He also understand that programming could be hard at times but he is willing to break down piece by piece.
